DOCS-5190 Create clerk middleware page (#647)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/nextjs/route-protection-requiring-authentication.mdx

---
title: Requiring authentication for route protection | Next.js
description: Learn how to protect the routes in your Next.js application that require authentication.
---

> # Requiring authenication for route protection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Requiring authentication for route protection
```

> Whether you're using the App Router, Pages Router, or Middleware, Clerk provides access to a standardized [`auth()`](/docs/references/nextjs/authentication-object) object that you can use to access authentication details throughout your application. You can find details below on how to access and use the `auth()` object.

Reviewer: This description would make sense on the `Auth` object page, but this entire guide is about requiring authentication for route protection - it's not necessarily about "how to access and use the Auth object". I think this summary could use some work - would you like help writing it?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whether you're using the App Router, Pages Router, or Middleware, Clerk provides access to a standardized [`auth()`](/docs/references/nextjs/authentication-object) object that you can use to access authentication details throughout your application. You can find details below on how to protect routes using the `auth()` object.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whether you're using the App Router, Pages Router, or Middleware, there are several methods you can use to protect routes within your app that require a logged in user to access. This guide will go through a variety of examples of how to do this.
```

  );
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

### Protect your Route Handlers and Server Actions

You can use protect queries and mutations in your Route Handlers or Server Actions in two ways:

- `auth().protect()` if you want Clerk to automatically return an error
- `auth().userId` if you want to customize the behavior or error message

<CodeBlockTabs type="router" options={["auth().protect()", "auth().userId()"]}>

```tsx filename="/app/api/dashboard/route.ts"
import { auth } from "@clerk/nextjs/server";

export async function GET() {

  // If there is no signed in user, this will return an error
  auth().protect()

  // Add your Route Handler logic here

  return Response.json({ userId: auth().userId })
}
```

```tsx filename="app/api/dashboard/route.ts"
import { auth } from '@clerk/nextjs/server';

export async function GET() {
  const { userId } = auth();

  if (!userId) {
    return Response.json(
      { error: 'Error: No signed in user' },
      { status: 401 },
    );
  }

  // Add your Route Handler logic here

  return Response.json({ userId: auth().userId });
}
```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Pages Router

### Protect a page

> You can protect a page using [`getServerSideProps()`](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/data-fetching/get-server-side-props) when using Server Side Rendering, or with [`useAuth()`](/docs/references/react/use-auth) from the client side.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can protect a page using [`getServerSideProps()`](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/data-fetching/get-server-side-props) when using Server Side Rendering, or with [`useUser()`](/docs/references/react/use-user) from the client side.
```

        <p>You are not signed in. Please sign in to see this content</p>
        <SignInButton />
      </div>
    );
  }

>   console.log('WTF?');

Reviewer: can we remove this console.log

Reviewer 2: HAHAHAH

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

```tsx filename="app/api/dashboard/route.ts"
import { auth } from '@clerk/nextjs/server';

export async function GET() {
  const { userId } = auth();

  if (!userId) {
    return Response.json(
      { error: 'Error: No signed in user' },
      { status: 401 },
    );
  }

  // Add your Route Handler logic here

>   return Response.json({ userId: auth().userId });

Reviewer: is this not redundant ? I thought the userId being passed is the auth().userId ?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  return Response.json({ userId });
```
